Block List and Block Grid v16 Documentation (#7598)
umbraco/UmbracoDocs: 16/umbraco-cms/fundamentals/backoffice/property-editors/built-in-umbraco-property-editors/block-editor/block-grid-editor.md

> This article is a work in progress and may undergo further revisions, updates, or amendments. The information contained herein is subject to change without notice.

Reviewer: This warning needs to go when you are done :)

3. Select **Create** -> **New Data Type**.
4. Select **Block Grid** from the list of available property editors.

You will see the configuration options for adding Block Types to the Grid as shown below. 

![Block Grid - Blocks Configuration](../../../../../../../16/umbraco-cms/fundamentals/backoffice/property-editors/built-in-property-editors/block-editor/images/BlockGridEditor_Configuration.png)

You will also see the following additional configuration options.

> ![Block Grid - Additional Data Type Configuration Options](../../../../../../../16/umbraco-cms/fundamentals/backoffice/property-editors/built-in-property-editors/block-editor/images/BlockGridEditor_Configuration-2.png)

Reviewer: This image does not render, check the path

Author: I believe this is a quirk of how the gitbook preview works - none of the images I see in gitbook are updated, and the ones that don't render are "new" ones which don't have an equivalent in the existing doc.

### Advanced

* **Overlay editor size** - Sets the size for the Content editor overlay for editing this block.
* **Inline editing mode** - Enabling this will change editing experience to inline, meaning that editing the data of blocks happens at sight as accordions.
* **Hide content editor** - Hides the UI for editing the content in a Block Editor. This is only relevant if you made a custom view that provides the UI for editing of content.

### Custom View

* **Custom view** - Overwrites the view for the block presentation in the Content editor. Building Custom Views for Block representations in Backoffice is the same for all Block Editors. [Read about building a Custom View for Blocks here](../../../../../customizing/extending-overview/extension-types/block-custom-view.md)

### Catalogue appearance

These properties refer to how the Block is presented in the Block catalogue, when editors choose which Blocks to use for their content.

* **Background color** - Define a background color to be displayed beneath the icon or thumbnail. Eg. `#424242`.

> * **Icon color** - Change the color of the Element Type icon. Eg. `#242424`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* **Background color** - Define a background color to be displayed beneath the icon or thumbnail. For example, `#424242`.
* **Icon color** - Change the color of the Element Type icon. For example, `#242424`.
```

![Block Grid - Result](../../../images/BlockEditorContentCreated.png)

> _This can also be tested via Postman as well if preferred._

Reviewer: I really would like a section or chapter about using Block Grid in a headless environment.

```
{% endcode %}

> 9. By injecting [ContentService](https://apidocs.umbraco.com/v16/csharp/api/Umbraco.Cms.Core.Services.ContentService.html) and [ContentTypeService](https://apidocs.umbraco.com/v16/csharp/api/Umbraco.Cms.Core.Services.ContentTypeService.html) into an API controller, we can transform the raw data into Block Grid JSON. It can then be saved to the target content item. Create a class called **BlockGridTestController.cs** containing the following:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
9. By injecting [ContentService](https://apidocs.umbraco.com/v16/csharp/api/Umbraco.Cms.Core.Services.ContentService.html) and [ContentTypeService](https://apidocs.umbraco.com/v16/csharp/api/Umbraco.Cms.Core.Services.ContentTypeService.html) into an API controller, the raw data is transformed into Block Grid JSON. It can then be saved to the target content item. Create a class called **BlockGridTestController.cs** containing the following:
```
